---
title: "MTU - Interactive Map"
description: "Students of class 2021, MTU Cork, developed and designed their interactive map of Carrigtwohill with accompanying videos for their Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in ‘Creative Digital Media’."
permalink: /cit-interactive/cit-interactive-map/
layout: layouts/page.njk
oldPath: "/CITInteractive/CITInteractiveMap.aspx"
---

<h1>Projects & Events</h1>
    <h2>MTU's Interactive Map of Carrigtwohill</h2>
    <h3>Student's Degree Module</h3>
   
    <p class="indentedText">
        Phase I of Carrigtwohill's Interactive Map with accompanying series of videos had been Designed and Developed 
        by a small team of Munster Technological University Students (formerly CIT) of Class 2021 as an examination module,
        ‘User Experience Design’ for their Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in ‘Creative Digital Media’, with Maria Murray, 
        a native of Carrigtwohill as their lecturer.
    </p>
    <p class="indentedText">
        Then during the summer months of that year, a much smaller team returned to complete a more comprehensive
        phase II of the project. For this second phase the team came under the direction of our society, and
        have cooperated fully with our requirements, producing a magnificent series of videos.</p>
    <p class="indentedText">
        Members of Carrigtwohill & District Historical Society provided the narration for the videos, in addition
        to the scripts which, in the main were of two hundred words dictated by the students’ college brief for 
        project; with many of the parish's images being provided by our historical society. </p>
   
       
    <h3>Interactive Map Design & Development</h3>
    <p class="indentedText">
        To view each video which in the main are between 1:30 and 2:30 minutes duration, simply open above menu and click on 
        ‘MTU Village Map'. This will open the Interactive Map of Carrigtwohill with seven locations we 
        have initially identified as sites of significant importance verifying Carrigtwohill’s rich heritage. 
        The videos also document the protected structures as detailed ‘under the provisions of the Architectural
        Heritage (National Inventory) and Historic Monuments (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1999.’</p>
     
    <p class="indentedText">
        The base map used for our interactive map is an edited extract of the historic 25 inch map (1889-1913), and
        will be of particular relevance for those with an interest in the rich social and cultural history of
        Carrigtwohill. These are to be found on Ordnance Survey Ireland (OSI) mapping system generated by 
        <a href="http://map.geohive.ie/" target="_blank">Geohive.ie</a>.
    </p>
    <p class="indentedText">
        Hover over each location to see title, then click on item number to view. Once viewed open again above menu to return
        'MTU Village Map' or close to return to main Carrigtwohill menu. </p>
  
    <h3>Our Sincere Thanks & Appreciation</h3>
    <p class="indentedText">
        This project was sponsored by Carrigtwohill Business Association with funding from Cork County Council’s
        ‘Amenity Fund’. The Association’s objective is to promote business in the area be they large, medium, or 
        small, but have kindly extended their support to include our historical society on this occasion.
    </p>
    <p class="indentedText">
        Our additional thanks are extended to the Generalate of the Poor Servants of the Mother of God for permission to reproduce the
        photographs of their convent, as supplied by their central archivist.
    </p>
